---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-05-09T01:41:51.956Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-09T01:13:53.652Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-09-52f5e0ea-aeb9-4d9a-874f-03757e1d120a.md
url: 52f5e0ea-aeb9-4d9a-874f-03757e1d120a/index.html
_type: Article

---
****

**"The Times They Are A-changin'" when it comes to mainstream media and as a throng of advertisers exploit shocking content in an attempt to garner a reaction from their audience, Bob Dylan's 1964 song is still able to capture the spirit of the audience's intended upheaval. Coined 'shock advertising', it can be described as the method of using nudity, violence, disconcerting imagery or words to provoke consumers' attention or to thrust itself into the news agenda. But does showing an infant shooting up heroin or a woman's grotesque, rotting, cancer-riddled mouth, attain the desired response from advertisers? Or are these shock tactics simply working against their causes and distancing advertisers from consumers?**

In 2012, the average consumer was exposed to roughly 40,000 advertisements over the course of the year. It's predicted that they are able to recall less than 60 of these. With this figure in mind, it's easy to appreciate just how hard it is for advertisers to make their messages standout and provoke action amongst consumers -- that's when shock advertising comes into play. Shock advertising attempts to beat the odds by trying to force consumers to receive a message by shocking them with content not usually seen as socially acceptable or appropriate. They are strategically formulated with ideas and imagery that deviate from familiar advertising customs and have an explicit intent is to rouse alarm in those who witness them.

Shock advertising is a tool of choice for campaigns against binge drinking, smoking, drugs, and violence, or in some circumstances, a combination of these such as driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. However, its use has also been seen in campaigns against political and religious groups, animal brutality, abortion, racism, social-inequality and meat consumption. Irrespective of its proven efficacy, industry experts argue that the pressure placed on advertisers to have their advertisements noticed is what underpins the growing use of shock advertising in today's media. Now, while shock advertising may compel a consumer's attention or make great dinner conversation, Chris Arnold carefully explained "there is a fine line in what people find to be productive shocking and offensive to the public".